=pod

=encoding utf8 

=head1 NAME

ec - EC key processing

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<gmssl> B<ec>
[B<-help>]
[B<-inform PEM|DER>]
[B<-outform PEM|DER>]
[B<-in filename>]
[B<-passin arg>]
[B<-out filename>]
[B<-passout arg>]
[B<-des>]
[B<-des3>]
[B<-sms4>]
[B<-text>]
[B<-noout>]
[B<-param_out>]
[B<-pubin>]
[B<-pubout>]
[B<-conv_form arg>]
[B<-param_enc arg>]
[B<-no_public>]
[B<-check>]
[B<-engine id>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<ec> command processes EC keys. They can be converted between various
forms and their components printed out. B<Note> GmSSL uses the
private key format specified in 'SEC 1: Elliptic Curve Cryptography'
(http://www.secg.org/). To convert an GmSSL EC private key into the
PKCS#8 private key format use the B<pkcs8> command.

ec命令处理EC密钥。 它们可以在各种形式之间进行转换，并将其组件打印出来。 注意GmSSL使用“SEC 1：椭圆曲线加密”（http://www.secg.org/）中指定的私钥格式。 要将GmSSL EC私钥转换为PKCS＃8私钥格式，请使用pkcs8命令。

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Print out a usage message.

输出使用信息。

=item B<-inform DER|PEM>

This specifies the input format. The B<DER> option with a private key uses
an ASN.1 DER encoded SEC1 private key. When used with a public key it
uses the SubjectPublicKeyInfo structure as specified in RFC 3280.
The B<PEM> form is the default format: it consists of the B<DER> format base64
encoded with additional header and footer lines. In the case of a private key
PKCS#8 format is also accepted.

该指令指出了输入文件格式。DER选项是一个私钥，它用ASN.1 DER编码的SEC1私钥文件。当为公钥时，用RFC3280指定的SubjectPublicKeyInfo结构。默认的是PEM格式，它也接受PKCS#8格式的私钥。

=item B<-outform DER|PEM>

This specifies the output format, the options have the same meaning as the
B<-inform> option.

该指令指出了输出格式。与-inform指令意义相同。

=item B<-in filename>

This specifies the input filename to read a key from or standard input if this
option is not specified. If the key is encrypted a pass phrase will be
prompted for.

如果未指定此选项，则指定从或从标准输入读取密钥的输入文件名。 如果密钥加密，将提示输入密码。

=item B<-passin arg>

the input file password source. For more information about the format of B<arg>
see the B<PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS> section in L<gmssl(1)>.

指定私钥包含口令存放方式。

=item B<-out filename>

This specifies the output filename to write a key to or standard output by
is not specified. If any encryption options are set then a pass phrase will be
prompted for. The output filename should B<not> be the same as the input
filename.

这指定了未指定要写入或输出的标准输出的输出文件名。 如果设置了任何加密选项，则会提示输入密码。 输出文件名不能与输入文件名相同。

=item B<-passout arg>

the output file password source. For more information about the format of B<arg>
see the B<PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS> section in L<gmssl(1)>.

输出文件口令保护存放方式。

=item B<-des|-des3|-sms4>

These options encrypt the private key with the DES, triple DES, SMS4 or
any other cipher supported by GmSSL before outputting it. A pass phrase is
prompted for.
If none of these options is specified the key is written in plain text. This
means that using the B<ec> utility to read in an encrypted key with no
encryption option can be used to remove the pass phrase from a key, or by
setting the encryption options it can be use to add or change the pass phrase.
These options can only be used with PEM format output files.

这些选项在输出之前，使用DES，三重DES，SMS4或GmSSL支持的任何其他密码加密私钥。 提示通行短语。 如果没有指定这些选项，则键将以纯文本形式写入。 这意味着使用ec实用程序读取加密密钥，无加密选项可用于从密钥中删除密码短语，或通过设置可用于添加或更改密码短语的加密选项。 这些选项只能用于PEM格式的输出文件。

=item B<-text>

prints out the public, private key components and parameters.

输出公钥和私钥的组成参数。

=item B<-noout>

this option prevents output of the encoded version of the key.

不输出密钥信息。

=item B<-modulus>

this option prints out the value of the public key component of the key.

该选项输出公钥组件值。

=item B<-pubin>

by default a private key is read from the input file: with this option a
public key is read instead.

默认读取为私钥，输入该指令后，从输入文件中读取公钥。

=item B<-pubout>

by default a private key is output. With this option a public
key will be output instead. This option is automatically set if the input is
a public key.

输入该指令后，公钥值到输出文件中。默认保存私钥到输出文件。如果输入是公钥该选项将自动设置。

=item B<-conv_form>

This specifies how the points on the elliptic curve are converted
into octet strings. Possible values are: B<compressed> (the default
value), B<uncompressed> and B<hybrid>. For more information regarding
the point conversion forms please read the X9.62 standard.
B<Note> Due to patent issues the B<compressed> option is disabled
by default for binary curves and can be enabled by defining
the preprocessor macro B<OPENSSL_EC_BIN_PT_COMP> at compile time.

这指定椭圆曲线上的点如何转换为八位字节串。 可能的值有：压缩（默认值），未压缩和混合。 有关点转换表单的更多信息，请阅读X9.62标准。 注意由于专利问题，压缩选项默认情况下禁用二进制曲线，并且可以通过在编译时定义预处理器宏OPENSSL_EC_BIN_PT_COMP来启用。

=item B<-param_enc arg>

This specifies how the elliptic curve parameters are encoded.
Possible value are: B<named_curve>, i.e. the ec parameters are
specified by an OID, or B<explicit> where the ec parameters are
explicitly given (see RFC 3279 for the definition of the
EC parameters structures). The default value is B<named_curve>.
B<Note> the B<implicitlyCA> alternative, as specified in RFC 3279,
is currently not implemented in GmSSL.

这指定椭圆曲线参数的编码方式。 可能的值为：named_curve，即ec参数由OID指定，或显式指定ec参数（参见RFC 3279以了解EC参数结构的定义）。 默认值为named_curve。 注意，如RFC 3279所述，implicitlyCA替代方案目前尚未在GmSSL中实现

=item B<-no_public>

This option omits the public key components from the private key output.

该指令省略了私钥输出中的公钥组件。

=item B<-check>

this option checks the consistency of an EC private or public key.

该指令检查了EC私钥或公钥的一致性。

=item B<-engine id>

specifying an engine (by its unique B<id> string) will cause B<ec>
to attempt to obtain a functional reference to the specified engine,
thus initialising it if needed. The engine will then be set as the default
for all available algorithms.

指定引擎。

=back

=head1 NOTES

The PEM private key format uses the header and footer lines:

 -----BEGIN EC PRIVATE KEY-----
 -----END EC PRIVATE KEY-----

The PEM public key format uses the header and footer lines:

 -----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----
 -----END PUBLIC KEY-----

=head1 EXAMPLES

To encrypt a private key using triple DES:

 gmssl ec -in key.pem -des3 -out keyout.pem

To convert a private key from PEM to DER format:

 gmssl ec -in key.pem -outform DER -out keyout.der

To print out the components of a private key to standard output:

 gmssl ec -in key.pem -text -noout

To just output the public part of a private key:

 gmssl ec -in key.pem -pubout -out pubkey.pem

To change the parameters encoding to B<explicit>:

 gmssl ec -in key.pem -param_enc explicit -out keyout.pem

To change the point conversion form to B<compressed>:

 gmssl ec -in key.pem -conv_form compressed -out keyout.pem

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ecparam(1)>, L<dsa(1)>, L<rsa(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2003-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the GmSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
