=pod

=encoding utf8 

=head1 NAME

list - list algorithms and features

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<gmssl list>
[B<-help>]
[B<-commands>]
[B<-digest-commands>]
[B<-digest-algorithms>]
[B<-cipher-commands>]
[B<-cipher-algorithms>]
[B<-public-key-algorithms>]
[B<-disabled>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command is used to generate list of algorithms or disabled
features.

这条命令用于生成算法或禁用功能的列表。

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Display out a usage message.

输出使用信息。

=item B<-commands>

Display a list of standard commands.

输出标准命令列表。

=item B<-digest-commands>

Display a list of message digest commands, which are typically used
as input to the L<dgst(1)> or L<speed(1)> commands.

显示消息摘要命令列表，通常用作dgst或speed命令的输入。

=item B<-digest-algorithms>

Display a list of message digest algorithms.
If a line is of the form
  foo => bar
then B<foo> is an alias for the official algorithm name, B<bar>.

显示消息摘要算法的列表。

=item B<-cipher-commands>

Display a list of cipher commands, which are typically used as input
to the L<dgst(1)> or L<speed(1)> commands.

显示密码命令列表，通常用作dgst或speed命令的输入。


=item B<-cipher-algorithms>

Display a list of cipher algorithms.
If a line is of the form
  foo => bar
then B<foo> is an alias for the official algorithm name, B<bar>.

显示密码算法的列表

=item B<-public-key-algorithms>

Display a list of public key algorithms, with each algorithm as
a block of multiple lines, all but the first are indented.

显示公钥算法列表，每个算法作为多行的块，除第一个都是缩进。

=item B<-disabled>

Display a list of disabled features, those that were compiled out
of the installation.

显示已禁用功能的列表，这些功能是从安装中编译出来的功能。

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the GmSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
