=pod

=encoding utf8 

=head1 NAME

pkey - public or private key processing tool

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<gmssl> B<pkey>
[B<-help>]
[B<-inform PEM|DER>]
[B<-outform PEM|DER>]
[B<-in filename>]
[B<-passin arg>]
[B<-out filename>]
[B<-passout arg>]
[B<-traditional>]
[B<-cipher>]
[B<-text>]
[B<-text_pub>]
[B<-noout>]
[B<-pubin>]
[B<-pubout>]
[B<-engine id>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pkey> command processes public or private keys. They can be converted
between various forms and their components printed out.

pkey指令处理公钥或者私钥。
它们可以在各种形式之间进行转换，并将其组件打印出来。

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Print out a usage message.

打印使用信息。

=item B<-inform DER|PEM>

This specifies the input format DER or PEM.

该选项指出了输入格式是DER还是PEM。

=item B<-outform DER|PEM>

This specifies the output format, the options have the same meaning as the
B<-inform> option.

该选项指出了输出格式，与-inform意义相同。

=item B<-in filename>

This specifies the input filename to read a key from or standard input if this
option is not specified. If the key is encrypted a pass phrase will be
prompted for.

如果该选项没有被指定，则指定从密钥中读取输入文件名或者标准输入。
如果密钥被加密，将提示输入密码。

=item B<-passin arg>

the input file password source. For more information about the format of B<arg>
see the B<PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS> section in L<gmssl(1)>.

输入文件的密码来源。有关arg格式的更多信息，请参阅gmssl（1）中的PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS部分。

=item B<-out filename>

This specifies the output filename to write a key to or standard output if this
option is not specified. If any encryption options are set then a pass phrase
will be prompted for. The output filename should B<not> be the same as the input
filename.

如果未指定此选项，则指定将密钥写入或输出的输出文件名。 如果设置了任何加密选项，
则会提示输入密码。 输出文件名不能与输入文件名相同。

=item B<-passout password>

the output file password source. For more information about the format of B<arg>
see the B<PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS> section in L<gmssl(1)>.

输出文件的密码来源。有关arg格式的更多信息请参阅gmssl(1)中的PASS PHARSE ARGUMENTS部分。

=item B<-traditional>

normally a private key is written using standard format: this is PKCS#8 form
with the appropriate encryption algorithm (if any). If the B<-traditional>
option is specified then the older "traditional" format is used instead.

通常使用标准格式写入私钥：这是具有适当加密算法（如果有的话）的PKCS＃8表单。
 如果指定了-traditional选项，则使用较旧的“traditional”格式。

=item B<-cipher>

These options encrypt the private key with the supplied cipher. Any algorithm
name accepted by EVP_get_cipherbyname() is acceptable such as B<des3>.

这些选项使用提供的密码加密私钥。 EVP_get_cipherbyname（）接受的任何算法名称都可以接受，如des3。

=item B<-text>

prints out the various public or private key components in
plain text in addition to the encoded version.

除了编码版本之外，以纯文本形式打印各种公共或私人密钥组件。

=item B<-text_pub>

print out only public key components even if a private key is being processed.

即使正在处理私钥，也打印公钥组件。

=item B<-noout>

do not output the encoded version of the key.

不打印出密钥的编码版本信息。

=item B<-pubin>

by default a private key is read from the input file: with this
option a public key is read instead.

默认从输入文件读取一个私钥：使用该选项后则变为读取一个公钥。

=item B<-pubout>

by default a private key is output: with this option a public
key will be output instead. This option is automatically set if
the input is a public key.


默认是输出一个私钥：使用该选项后则变为输出一个公钥。如果输入是公钥则该选项会自动设置。

=item B<-engine id>

specifying an engine (by its unique B<id> string) will cause B<pkey>
to attempt to obtain a functional reference to the specified engine,
thus initialising it if needed. The engine will then be set as the default
for all available algorithms.

指定要使用的硬件引擎。指定一个引擎（通过其唯一的id字符串）将导致pkey尝试获取对指定引擎的功能引用
，从而如果需要的话初始化它。 然后，引擎将被设置为所有可用算法的默认值。

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To remove the pass phrase on an RSA private key:

 gmssl pkey -in key.pem -out keyout.pem

To encrypt a private key using triple DES:

 gmssl pkey -in key.pem -des3 -out keyout.pem

To convert a private key from PEM to DER format:

 gmssl pkey -in key.pem -outform DER -out keyout.der

To print out the components of a private key to standard output:

 gmssl pkey -in key.pem -text -noout

To print out the public components of a private key to standard output:

 gmssl pkey -in key.pem -text_pub -noout

To just output the public part of a private key:

 gmssl pkey -in key.pem -pubout -out pubkey.pem

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<genpkey(1)>, L<rsa(1)>, L<pkcs8(1)>,
L<dsa(1)>, L<genrsa(1)>, L<gendsa(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2006-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the GmSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
