=pod

=encoding utf8 

=head1 NAME

rand - generate pseudo-random bytes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<gmssl rand>
[B<-help>]
[B<-out> I<file>]
[B<-rand> I<file(s)>]
[B<-base64>]
[B<-hex>]
I<num>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<rand> command outputs I<num> pseudo-random bytes after seeding
the random number generator once.  As in other B<gmssl> command
line tools, PRNG seeding uses the file I<$HOME/>B<.rnd> or B<.rnd>
in addition to the files given in the B<-rand> option.  A new
I<$HOME>/B<.rnd> or B<.rnd> file will be written back if enough
seeding was obtained from these sources.

rand命令在播放随机数生成器一次后输出num伪随机字节。 与其他gmssl命令行工具一样，
除了-rand选项中提供的文件外，PRNG种子使用文件$ HOME / .rnd或.rnd。
 如果从这些来源获得足够的播种，将会写入新的$ HOME / .rnd或.rnd文件。

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Print out a usage message.

输出使用信息

=item B<-out> I<file>

Write to I<file> instead of standard output.

写入file而不是标准输出。

=item B<-rand> I<file(s)>

Use specified file or files or EGD socket (see L<RAND_egd(3)>)
for seeding the random number generator.
Multiple files can be specified separated by an OS-dependent character.
The separator is B<;> for MS-Windows, B<,> for OpenVMS, and B<:> for
all others.

使用指定的文件或EGD套接字（请参阅RAND_egd（3））播放随机数生成器。
 多个文件可以由与操作系统相关的字符分隔。 分离器是 对于MS-Windows，对于OpenVMS
，以及：对于所有其他。

=item B<-base64>

Perform base64 encoding on the output.

在输出上执行base64编码。

=item B<-hex>

Show the output as a hex string.

将输出显示为十六进制字符串。

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<RAND_bytes(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the GmSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
