=pod

=encoding utf8 

=head1 NAME

speed - test library performance

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<gmssl speed>
[B<-help>]
[B<-engine id>]
[B<-elapsed>]
[B<-evp algo>]
[B<-decrypt>]
[B<algorithm...>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command is used to test the performance of cryptographic algorithms.
To see the list of supported algorithms, use the I<list --digest-commands>
or I<list --cipher-commands> command.

此命令用于测试加密算法的性能。 要查看支持的算法列表，请使用list --digest-commands或list --cipher-commands命令。

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Print out a usage message.

打印使用信息

=item B<-engine id>

specifying an engine (by its unique B<id> string) will cause B<speed>
to attempt to obtain a functional reference to the specified engine,
thus initialising it if needed. The engine will then be set as the default
for all available algorithms.

指定引擎（通过其唯一的id字符串）将导致speed尝试获得对指定引擎的功能引用，从而在需要时初始化它。 然后，引擎将被设置为所有可用算法的默认值。

=item B<-elapsed>

Measure time in real time instead of CPU time. It can be useful when testing
speed of hardware engines.

实时测量时间，而不是CPU时间。 在测试硬件引擎的速度时可能会很有用。

=item B<-evp algo>

Use the specified cipher or message digest algorithm via the EVP interface.

通过EVP接口使用指定的密码或消息摘要算法。

=item B<-decrypt>

Time the decryption instead of encryption. Affects only the EVP testing.

时间解密而不是加密。 仅影响EVP测试。

=item B<[zero or more test algorithms]>

If any options are given, B<speed> tests those algorithms, otherwise all of
the above are tested.

如果有任何选项，speed测试这些算法，否则所有上述都被测试。

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the GmSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
