=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

SM9_MASTER_KEY_new, SM9_MASTER_KEY_free, SM9_KEY_new, SM9_KEY_free - SM9 Algorithm

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/sm9.h>

 SM9_MASTER_KEY *SM9_MASTER_KEY_new(void);
 void SM9_MASTER_KEY_free(SM9_MASTER_KEY *a);

 SM9_KEY *SM9_KEY_new(void);
 void SM9_KEY_free(SM9_KEY *a);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SM9_MASTER_KEY_new() allocates an empty B<SM9_MASTER_KEY> structure.

SM9_MASTER_KEY_new()分配一个新的B<SM9_MASTER_KEY>结构。

SM9_MASTER_KEY_free() frees the given B<SM9_MASTER_KEY> structure.

SM9_MASTER_KEY_free()将给定的B<SM9_MASTER_KEY>结构释放。

SM9_KEY_new() allocates an empty B<SM9_KEY> structure.

SM9_KEY_new()分配一个新的B<SM9_KEY>结构。

SM9_KEY_free() frees the given B<SM9_KEY> structure.

SM9_KEY_free()将给定的B<SM9_KEY>结构释放。

=head1 RETURN VALUES

SM9_MASTER_KEY_new() returns a pointer to an allocated B<SM9_MASTER_KEY> structure or NULL on error.

SM9_MASTER_KEY_new()返回一个指向已分配的B<SM9_MASTER_KEY>结构的指针。如果发生错误则返回NULL。

SM9_KEY_new() returns a pointer to an allocated B<SM9_KEY> structure or NULL on error.

SM9_KEY_new()返回一个指向已分配的B<SM9_KEY>结构的指针。如果发生错误则返回NULL。

SM9_MASTER_KEY_free() and SM9_KEY_free() have no return value.

SM9_MASTER_KEY_free()和SM9_KEY_free()无返回值。

=head1 CONFORMING TO

GM/T 0044-2016 SM9 Identification Cryptographic Algorithm

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_DigestInit(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2014-2019 The GmSSL Project. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the GmSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<http://gmssl.org/license.html>.

=cut
