=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

ZUC_set_key, ZUC_generate_keystream, ZUC_generate_keyword - ZUC Stream Cipher

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/zuc.h>

 void ZUC_set_key(ZUC_KEY *key, const unsigned char *user_key, const unsigned char *iv);
 void ZUC_generate_keystream(ZUC_KEY *key, size_t nwords, uint32_t *words);
 uint32_t ZUC_generate_keyword(ZUC_KEY *key);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ZUC_set_key() sets up the B<ZUC_KEY> key using the B<user_key> and initial vector B<iv>.

ZUC_set_key()通过用户的密钥B<user_key>以及初始向量B<iv>来设置密钥结构B<ZUC_KEY>。

ZUC_generate_keystream() computes 32-bit keywords for B<nwords> times by a B<ZUC_KEY> structure, and stores them in the given B<words> array(pointer).

ZUC_generate_keystream()通过函数参数中的B<ZUC_KEY>结构计算B<nwords>个32-bit的密钥字，并装入给定的B<words>数组中。

ZUC_generate_keyword() is simliar to ZUC_generate_keystream(), but computes keyword only once and return this value.

ZUC_generate_keyword()与ZUC_generate_keystream()相似，但只计算一次并直接返回该密钥字的值。

=head1 RETURN VALUES

ZUC_set_key() and ZUC_generate_keystream() have no return value.

ZUC_set_key()和ZUC_generate_keystream()无返回值。

ZUC_generate_keyword() returns a 32-bit unsigned integer.

ZUC_generate_keyword()返回一个32位无符号整数。

=head1 CONFORMING TO

GM/T 0004-2012 SM3 Cryptogrpahic Hash Algorithm.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_DigestInit(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2014-2019 The GmSSL Project. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the GmSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<http://gmssl.org/license.html>.

=cut
